---
title: "Feature Spectrum Topology"
collection: publications
category: preprint
permalink: /publication/2023-10-23-feature
excerpt: 'The work propose a framework to characterize the topological phases and the corresponding bulk-boundary correspondence through projective spectrum, which serve as a potential solution for symmetry breaking systems. The proof of bulk-boudary correspondence is provided in a later revision to be published.'
date: 2023-10-23
venue: 'arXiv'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.14832'
citation: 'Baokai Wang*, Yi-Chun Hung*, Xiaoting Zhou, Tzen Ong, and Hsin Lin. Feature Spectrm Topology. <i>arXiv</i>:2310.14832.'
---
<p style="text-align: justify;">
Topology is a fundamental aspect of quantum physics, and it has led to key breakthroughs and results in various fields of quantum materials. In condensed matters, this has culminated in the recent discovery of symmetry-protected topological phases. However, symmetry-based topological characterizations rely heavily on symmetry analysis and are incapable of detecting the topological phases in systems where the symmetry is broken, thus missing a large portion of interesting topological physics. Here, we propose a new approach to understanding the topological nature of quantum materials, which we call feature spectrum topology. In this framework, the ground-state is separated into different partitions by the eigenspectrum of a feature, a particular chosen internal quantum degree of freedom, such as spin or pseudo-spin, and the topological properties are determined by analysis of these ground-state partitions. We show that bulk-boundary correspondence guarantees gapless spectral flows in either one of the energy or feature spectrum. Most importantly, such 'feature-energy duality' of gapless spectral flows serves as a fundamental manifestation of a topological phase, thereby paving a new way towards topological characterizations beyond symmetry considerations. Our development reveals the topological nature of a quantum ground state hidden outside symmetry-based characterizations, hence, providing a platform for a more refined search of unconventional topological materials.
</p>